# CILogon Service Level Agreement

## Version Control
| *Version Number* | *Date* | *Author* | *Comments* |
| ---------------- | ------ | -------- | ---------- |
| 1.0 | 2-10-2015 | Scott Teige | First Draft |
| 1.1 | 3-07-2016 | Neha Sharma | Removed CILogon Basic CA related text and fixed some typos |
| 1.2 | 3-21-2016 | Jeny Teheran | Rewrote the SLA after meeting with Rob Q, Jim B, Kyle G, Dave D. |
| 1.2 | 4-27-2016 | Rob Quick | Agreed to changes in rewrite and signed off from OSG Operations |

## Executive Summary

The CILogon project provides the open source, standards-based *CILogon Service* at [https://cilogon.org/](https://cilogon.org/), providing the NSF research community with credentials for secure access to cyberinfrastructure (CI). The service bridges the identity credentials generated by the nation's universities, through the
## Owners

This SLA is owned by OSG and XSEDE and will be reviewed and agreed upon by the XSEDE Senior Management Team and the OSG Executive Team.

## Service Name and Description

### Name

The CILogon Service

### Description

The CILogon Service provides the certificate signing backend for CILogon Open Science Grid Certification Authority [CILogon OSG CA](https://twiki.opensciencegrid.org/bin/view/Security/OSGCertificateService). OSG OIM interface was integrated with CILogon Hardware Security Module (CILogon HSM) resulting in the new CILogon OSG CA, which is operated by OSG in collaboration with XSEDE. Certificates from this CA are only issued issued if user/host/service certificate request has been approved by the Registration Authority Agent (RA) and/or Grid Admin (as the case may be).

The CILogon Service also provides CILogon Basic CA. The CILogon Basic CA is a service that allows users at universities with existing single sign-on systems to use their campus credentials to get a certificate issued by the CILogon Basic CA instantly. This certificate is only issued if the campus single sign-on system verifies the user's credentials. OSG is a relying party of CILogon Basic CA. Users from some research institutions and universities -which are members of OSG- get certificates from CILogon Basic CA using their institutions credentials.

## Security Considerations

   * Unavailability of the CILogon Service: certificate signing backend for CILogon OSG CA or CILogon Basic CA does not constitute a security incident.
   * Compromise of the certificate signing backend (offered by CILogon Service) for CILogon OSG CA constitutes a declared security incident at OSG and XSEDE.
   * Compromise of the CILogon Basic CA constitutes a declared security incident only at XSEDE.
   * Incident control in the case of compromise of the CILogon Service will fall to the XSEDE L3 Operations Security lead(s).
   * For CILogon certificate signing backend, see Section 5.7. Compromise and disaster recovery at CILogon OSG CA Certificate Policy and Certification Practice Statement (CP/CPS) [here](https://twiki.grid.iu.edu/twiki/bin/viewfile/Security/OSGCertificateService/CILogonOSGCPCPS_Final_V1.pdf) for incident management and response procedures.
   * For CILogon Basic CA, see Section 5.7 Compromise and disaster recovery at CILogon Basic CA Certificate Policy and Certification Practice Statement (CP/CPS) [here](http://ca.cilogon.org/cilogon-basic-policy.pdf?revision=4) for incident management and response procedures.

## Service Target Response Priorities and Response Times

This section deals with unplanned outages. Please see [Requests for Service Enhancement](#requests-for-service-enhancements) for information on planned maintenance outages.

### CILogon OSG CA - Certificate signing backend
| Critical | High | Elevated | Normal |
| -------- | ---- | -------- | ------ |
| *Work Outage* | * * | * * | * * |
| The certificate signing backend service for CILogon OSG CA does not have critical priority | The issue causes a full service outage rendering the certificate signing backend service for CILogon OSG CA unavailable | The issue causes short (less than 15 minute) periods of unstable or inconsistent performance at the certificate signing backend service for CILogon OSG CA | The issue causes minor (less than 5 minutes) periods of unstable or inconsistent performance at the certificate signing backend service for CILogon OSG CA |
| *Number of Clients Affected* | * * | * * | * * |
| N/A | The issue affects all CILogon OSG CA users | The issue may or may not affect all CILogon OSG CA users | The issue affects only a small number of CILogon OSG CA users |
| *Response Time* | * * | * * | * * |
| N/A | Within the next business day | Within the next business day | Within five (5) business days |
| *Resolution Time* | * * | * * | * * |
| N/A | The maximum acceptable resolution time is one full (1) business day | The maximum acceptable resolution time is five (5) business days | The maximum acceptable resolution time is thirty (30) business days |
| *Escalates Every* | * * | * * | * * |
| N/A | One Day | One Week | One Month |

### CILogon Basic CA
| Critical | High | Elevated | Normal |
| -------- | ---- | -------- | ------ |
| *Work Outage* | * * | * * | * * |
| The CILogon Basic CA does not have critical priority | The issue causes a full service outage rendering the CILogon Basic CA unavailable | The issue causes short (less than 15 minute) periods of unstable or inconsistent performance of CILogon Basic CA | The issue causes minor (less than 5 minutes) periods of unstable or inconsistent performance of CILogon Basic CA |
| *Number of Clients Affected* | * * | * * | * * |
| N/A | The issue affects all CILogon Basic CA users | The issue may or may not affect all CILogon Basic CA users | The issue affects only a small number of CILogon Basic CA users |
| *Response Time* | * * | * * | * * |
| N/A | Within the next business day | Within the next business day | Within five (5) business days |
| *Resolution Time* | * * | * * | * * |
| N/A | The maximum acceptable resolution time is one full (1) business day | The maximum acceptable resolution time is five (5) business days | The maximum acceptable resolution time is thirty (30) business days |
| *Escalates Every* | * * | * * | * * |
| N/A | One Day | One Week | One Month |

## Contacts

| *XSEDE Contact* |
| --------------- |
| help@xsede.org |
| help@cilogon.org |
| jbasney@illinois.edu |

Any ongoing "Normal" or "Elevated" level issues will be discussed at the weekly [Operations](https://github.com/opensciencegrid/operations/tree/master/docs/WeeklyMinutes) and
[Production](https://github.com/opensciencegrid/production/tree/master/docs/WeeklyMinutes) meetings.

## Service Availability and Outages

The parties will strive for 95% service availability. If service availability falls below 95% monthly as monitored by OSG Operations on two consecutive months a root cause analysis and service plan will be submitted to the OSG stakeholders for plans to restore an acceptable level of service availability.

## Service Support Hours
The service is supported by XSEDE Operations Center (XOC). The XOC operates during all hours EXCEPT for the following: Friday 11pm to Saturday 7am, Saturday 11pm to Sunday 7am, and Sunday 11pm to Monday 7am. All issues reported to XOC will be investigated by the next business day. All times are central time zone.

## Service Off-Hours Support Procedures
The primary method for off-hour support is creation of a XSEDE trouble ticket [here](https://portal.xsede.org/help-desk). Additionally,
issues can be reported through a GOC ticket at [trouble ticket](https://ticket.grid.iu.edu/submit).

## Requests for Service Enhancements

This section deals with planned maintenance outages. XSEDE does scheduled maintenance for the CILogon service. The maintenance is announced 1 week before through email and posted at [http://www.cilogon.org/service/outages](http://www.cilogon.org/service/outages).

## Customer Problem Reporting

CILogon service problems should be reported immediately by one of the following mechanisms.

   * Creating a problem ticket [here](https://portal.xsede.org/help-desk) (*preferred*)
   * Creating a problem ticket [here](https://ticket.grid.iu.edu/submit) (for next business day response)
   * Emailing a description to goc@opensciencegrid.org (for next business day response)

## Responsibilities

### Provider Responsibilities
Provider in this section refers to the operators of the hardware hosting the service. All times start from the time notification is sent to the
provider that a problem exists. The provider is the Extreme Science and Engineering Discovery Environment (XSEDE).

   * Next day parts hardware contract/warranty
   * Hot spare at another location
   * Primary and backup contact within XSEDE
   * Total outage per incident = 2 hours (95% per year planned and unplanned, not to exceed 432 hours per year)
   * 1 hour of assessment and updates to XOC for dissemination
   * Redundancy built into hardware (e.g. power supplies, network cards, network connections, power feeds - UPS and House, etc.) where appropriate
   * Minimum 1 week notification for planned outages

### OSG Operations Responsibilities
The Grid Operations Center (GOC) at Indiana University will serve as a secondary point of contact for reporting problems. If contacted by phone, the GOC
will notify the providers via the preferred mechanism. The GOC will provide notification services to OSG users.

## Service Measuring and Reporting
OSG Operations will provide the customer with the following reports in the intervals indicated (monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually):

| *Report Name* | *Reporting Interval* | *Delivery Method* | *Responsible Party* |
| ------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------- |
| System Uptime | Monthly | Web Posting | GOC |
| Service Uptime | Monthly | Web Posting | GOC |
| Report of Critical and High Priority Issues | Quarterly | Web Posting | GOC |

These reports will be posted in Appendix E of this document.

## SLA Validity Period

This SLA will be in effect for one year.

## SLA Review Procedure

This SLA will renew automatically on a yearly basis unless change or update is requested by the XSEDE Senior Management Team, the OSG Operations Coordinator, the OSG Executive Team or the OSG Stakeholders.

## References

# Appendix A - Customer Information
All CILogon Service users and OSG Staff are considered customers.

# Appendix B - Other Service Dependencies
The CILogon Service is dependent on the following services to collect and distribute information:
   * Local Network, Hardware, OS, Service Software

# Appendix C - Supported Hardware and Software

## Supported Hardware
The following hardware is supported:
   * Physical devices used to provide the service.
   * Physical devices used to provide the environment used to house the service.

## Hardware Services

Performing repairs under warranty: Any work to be performed under warranty may be referred to the warranty service provider at the discretion of the Service Provider analyst(s). Service Provider analysts will not undertake work that will void warranties on hardware unless specifically requested and authorized by provider's management in writing.

Obtaining repair services: The Service Provider analyst will recommend a service vendor whenever he/she feels the repair work requires specialized skills or tools.

   * Backup. Service Provider agrees to fully back up all Service Provider-supported software and data nightly every business day.

## Software Services
Service Provider agrees to cover software support services, including software installations and upgrades. All software maintenance periods will be communicated to the GOC and announced via the policy put forth in the [OSG Operations Responsibilities](#osg-operations-responsibilities) section of this document.

## Software Costs

XSEDE bear all costs for new and replacement software.

# Appendix D - Approval
| *Approved By* | *Position* | *Date* |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------ |
| Rob Quick | OSG Operations Coordinator | 27 APR 2016 |

# Appendix E - Metric Reports
   * [[ServiceLevelAgreements#Supporting_Documents][Recent availability statistics]]

### Comments


